Instructor: In this lecture,
I'm gonna show you how to install
Kali Linux as a virtual machine inside Linux.
Skip this lecture if you have it already installed,
and revise the previous lectures
to see how to install it on Windows or Apple macOS.
Now, I already have it downloaded in here in my downloads.
And as you can see, this is an archive
with a 7 zip extension.
The actual virtual image is compressed inside this archive.
We did this to reduce its size,
so you can download it quicker.
But in order to use this virtual image,
we're gonna have to uncompress the archive.
To do that, you simply have to right click it
and click on extract here.
You're gonna need to give it some time
to fully uncompress the archive and reveal its content.
Once this is done, you're gonna see a new directory in here
that contains the actual image,
and you'll notice that this folder ends with .vmwarevm.
So in order to run this virtual image of Kali Linux,
we need to install a virtualization software.
And the software that we're gonna use is called VMware.
Now you can download VMware from the same page
where you downloaded the custom Kali.
I'm gonna include its link in the resources
of this lecture as well.
And we're just gonna scroll down
past the Kali download links.
You'll see we have a new section here
that has the VMware player download links
for all operating systems.
And since we're installing Kali
on a Linux computer in this lecture,
we're gonna download the Linux version in here
by clicking on this link.
Click on download one more time
and give it some time to download.
Once the download is complete,
we're gonna be able to see it here in our downloads.
This is the installer for VMware,
the software that we're gonna use to run virtual machines
inside our current operating system.
And to install it,
we're first gonna need to open our terminal
and navigate to the location
where we have this installer downloaded,
which is in my downloads.
So I'm gonna use the CD command
to change my working directory to downloads.
And if I do ls to list all of the files,
you'll see we have the file in here.
And before running this file,
we need to change its permissions to unexecutable.
So to do that, we're gonna do chmod + x,
followed by the file name.
I'm gonna hit Enter.
And now if I do ls,
you'll notice that the file name is listed in green,
meaning that this is an executable.
Now, before running this executable,
we're gonna have to install the Build Essentials package
because it is required by this installer
to install VMware for us.
Now I'm doing all of these steps on Ubuntu,
but installing VMware should be pretty much the same
on most Linux and especially Debian based distributions.
So in order to install the Build Essentials,
I'm first gonna have to update the list of sources
that I can download packages from.
And to do that, we're gonna do sudo apt get update.
I'm gonna input my password.
Once the sources are updated,
we're ready to install the Build Essentials.
So we're gonna do sudo apt-get install
build essential gcc-12.
We're gonna hit Enter.
I've already installed this,
that's why it's automatically installing it for me.
But in your case, it's gonna ask you to confirm,
and all you'll have to do is simply hit Enter
to confirm that you want to install it.
If you don't see any errors at all,
it means everything got installed properly.
So I'm gonna clear the screen,
and I'm gonna do ls one more time
just to show you what we want to run.
We wanna run this executable,
which is the same file as this one.
And to run executables in Linux,
you simply have to do dot forward slash
followed by the executable name.
Now also, we need to run this as admin.
Therefore, I'm gonna type sudo before the command.
I'm gonna hit Enter
and we're gonna give it some time to extract the installer.
And once it's done, we're gonna go to all of our software
and we're gonna run VMware player.
We're gonna accept the agreement and click next,
accept the license, next.
We're gonna say we don't want to share data,
and we click on finish.
We're gonna put the password.
And perfect, here we go.
During the installation, you might also get an option
to either use the free or the paid version.
Make sure you select the free one
because we're using it for non-commercial use.
So right now, we're ready to create
or open ready virtual machines using VMware.
And the virtual machine that we actually want to run
is the customized version of Kali
that we just downloaded at the start of the video.
So to do that,
we're simply gonna click on open a virtual machine
or go to file and open virtual machine.
We're gonna navigate to the location
where we downloaded this virtual machine.
So we're gonna go to downloads,
we're gonna double click it in here
and select the only file that we can select,
which is the .vmx file.
We're gonna double click it.
And here we go, we have it imported in here in VMware,
and we can easily start it now
by clicking on power on in here.
Now, before doing that, I just wanna show you
how to modify the virtual machine settings.
You do not need to do this.
I'm simply showing you how to do that
so you get an idea on how to modify the settings.
Because modifying virtual machine settings
is always the same
regardless of what type of virtual machine it is.
So we're gonna click on
edit virtual machine settings in here
to modify the settings.
And as you can see, the first thing that you can modify
is the amount of memory that the virtual machine has,
and you can increase it or decrease it by moving the slider.
It's set to two gigabytes by default, and that is good.
So I'm gonna keep it at that.
Next, you can modify the number of processors
that the machine has.
Again, it's set to two by default.
I'm gonna keep it at that because that's pretty good.
You can also modify the network settings.
And as you can see right now, it's set to use a NAT network.
We're also gonna keep this as NAT.
This is great because this setting will basically create
a virtual network where my host machine
is going to be the router for this network.
And then all the virtual machines
are going to be clients connected to this network.
So they're going to get internet connection
from my host machine.
And at the same time, all of my virtual machines
will be connected to the same virtual network.
This is very handy because my virtual machines
will be able to communicate with each other
and therefore, will be able to use the Kali machine
to hack into the others,
will be able to test network attacks and do much more.
So this setting will first allow my virtual machines
to have internet connection,
and it'll also allow them to communicate with each other
through this virtual NAT network.
Now, this virtual network
will rely on the connection of your host computer.
So it'll not need any extra interfaces,
it'll not need any extra adapters.
And as far as the virtual machines are concerned,
they are connected to an ethernet network,
but in reality, they are connected through the host machine.
Finally, you can also modify the display settings in here,
and I usually like to tick this option
to accelerate 3D graphics.
If you get issues with it, you can untick it,
but usually it gives you nicer and smoother animations
with virtual machines.
So we're gonna save the settings
and we can go ahead and start this virtual machine
by selecting it and clicking on power on in here.
We're gonna say I copied it
and we're just gonna give it some time to load.
And as you can see, if everything goes as expected,
you should get the default login screen for Kali.
So I'm gonna click in here
and I'm gonna put the username as root, R-O-O-T,
hit Enter, and the password is the reverse of that.
So it's T-O-O-R.
We're gonna hit Enter and give it some time.
And great, as you can see,
now we have another operating system,
Kali Linux installed as a virtual machine
inside our own main host operating system.
Now we can put this in full screen
by going to virtual machine in here
and clicking on enter full screen.
This screen should automatically resize
as you can see in here.
And in most cases, the icons should look normal,
but in my case, they look small because I have a 4K display.
So we're gonna need to manually modify the display settings.
And to do that, we're gonna right click, go to settings,
and we're gonna set the scale to 200.
I'm gonna click on apply.
We're gonna keep the changes and perfect.
Now Kali looks normal for me.
You don't have to do this
if Kali looked normal from the start.
Only if you have a high resolution screen,
you might have to do this.
Now, I know this operating system
might look a little bit confusing and scary.
But don't worry about it at all,
I will teach you how to use it step by step
as we go through the course.
If you face any issues while installing Kali,
check out the featured questions first.
And if you don't see your answer,
feel free to ask us in the QnA or in the forums
and we will respond to you within a maximum of 15 hours.
And to turn off Kali, you can simply click here,
go to power off and power off.
Click on power off one more time,
and the machine will shut down.